Azure Governance Foundations
============================

The Azure Governance Foundation (AGF) is designed to provide clear guidance on
how a company can create a well-managed Azure environment by creating the
business structures that enable a cloud-first approach (like a Technology
Steering Committee and a Cloud Center of Excellence (CCoE) team). The purpose of
this guidance is to share the approach and insights of customers who are
successfully using similar governing bodies to manage their Azure environments.

The goal of the AGF is to help customers:

-   Transform the IT organization into a true partner with the business

-   Align work effort to business value

-   Senior management…

-   Enable teams to realize value quickly

-   Create a culture of accountability and execution

-   Create a functional Azure governance team (CCoE)

-   Well-managed Azure platform aligned with corporate governance standards

-   Creation of certified catalog of cloud products

-   Increased corporate confidence in Azure

-   Follow and agile approach in governing Azure

-   Define policies across disciplines and implement those in the form of Azure
    Policies and other cloud-native mechanisms.

-   Design a well-governed and managed Azure environment ready to accept
    production workloads.

-   Increase TTM for workloads deployed in Azure.

Is the AGF for me?
------------------

The Azure Governance Foundation is for any organization that wants to implement
a tested approach to creating a well-managed Azure environment. AGF is best
thought of as an extension to the [Cloud Adoption Framework
(CAF)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/cloud-adoption/)
which is framework providing enterprise customers a set of tools, guidance, and
narratives that help shape technology, business, and people strategies for
driving desired business outcomes during their adoption effort. If you have not
read the Cloud Adoption Framework, you should begin there and then return to the
AGF if you need deeper guidance on the people and process aspects of this
approach – which is to say, how to create business structures to support the
journey to cloud.

The AGF is designed for customers who want to transform their IT organizations
into strong partners with their businesses. New cloud customers who aren’t quite
sure where to start on their transformational journey will benefit from the AGF
as well as existing cloud customers who want to improve their efficiency,
governance and corporate confidence in the cloud.

What if I don’t use Azure – can this approach help me?
------------------------------------------------------

Yes, it can. The approach described in the AGF is not specific to any one cloud.
In many ways, the approach to management and governance described here is
neither new nor profoundly revolutionary. It is simply a common-sense approach
to managing assets in a cloud-first world. This approach can be used in AWS or
GCP as well as in Azure. Good governance, a culture of accountability and a
well-managed environment are not the domain of any one cloud provider.

That said, aspects of the approach described here will be tactical and specific
to Azure. The use of Azure Policies, Management Groups and Azure Blueprints are
limited to Azure (though similar concepts exist in other clouds). Details of how
to implement aspects like identity, networking and cloud-native tooling are
focused solely on the Microsoft Cloud. Inasmuch as there is parity across these
features and functions in other cloud providers, the information in this guide
may be applied to any cloud.

What about other approaches?
----------------------------

The AGF is not the only governance approach used by successful customers, but it
is *one* approach. The purpose of this guidance is highlighting the AGF approach
as a reasonable and appropriate one, especially for customers looking for a
place to start. There are other governance approaches that achieve similar
outcomes.

Contributing
------------

To contribute and get started, please visit our [contribution
guide](contribution-guide/readme.md).

Code of Conduct
---------------

*This project has adopted the* [Microsoft Open Source Code of
Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/)*. For more information
see the* [Code of Conduct
FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) *or contact*
<opencode@microsoft.com> *with any additional questions or comments.*
